# Estimation

## Prepare ACS data

Use `csv2sqlite.py` to save the raw csv.gz data file into an sqlite database.
* `acs`: table from ACS microdata
* `mig2met`: table to convert migration state/puma to puma
	* run `data-prep.r` to build the csv from the two csv files mapping puma and msa
	* then load it into the sqlite database as another table
Then use SQL queries to get aggregated values to avoid loading the entire dataset into memory.
Queries apply categorizations (race, edu) on-the-fly, so no need to pre-clean the data.

## Estimation of model objects

* set up data: check these files for correct filenames per model (different specifications by age and type)
	* `smooth-pops.r`: query and smooth aggregated population counts in each desired metro
		* Total/single/married populations, marriage/divorce flows, migration flows
		* Smoothing by non-parametric regression (local-polynomial): using hand-rolled "diagonal" smoothing kernel (manual bandwidth)
		* Saves smoothed data to csv for loading into `julia`
	* `mort-rates.r`: interpolates and saves death rates
* `main-estim.jl`: runs the show, but need to set options first
	* loads populations from saved JLD files, or calls `prepare-pops.jl` to generate them anew
	* `prepare-pops.jl`: loads csv files generated by `R` scripts above, then converts DataFrames to multidimensional arrays (per metro) and saves as JLD files
	* estimate arrival rates and then non-parametric objects using `estim-functions.jl` and `compute-npobj.jl`
	* can also do a parameter grid search or monte carlo estimation
* `plot-results.r`: plot model-data fit and estimated objects

## Largest metro areas by adult population (millions)

1. 35620: 14.5m - New York-Newark-Jersey City, NY-NJ-PA
2. 31080: 9.4m - Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA
3. 16980: 6.8m - Chicago-Naperville-Elgin, IL-IN-WI
4. 19100: 4.6m - Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX
5. 37980: 4.4m - Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE-MD
6. 26420: 4.2m - Houston-The Woodlands-Sugar Land, TX
7. 47900: 4.1m - Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV
8. 33100: 4.1m - Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach, FL
9. 12060: 3.8m - Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Roswell, GA
10. 14460: 3.5m - Boston-Cambridge-Newton, MA-NH
11. 41860: 3.3m - San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA
12. 19820: 3.1m - Detroit-Warren-Dearborn, MI
13. 38060: 3.1m - Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale, AZ
14. 40140: 3.0m - Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, CA
15. 42660: 2.6m - Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA
16. 33460: 2.4m - Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI
17. 41740: 2.3m - San Diego-Carlsbad, CA
18. 45300: 2.1m - Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, FL
19. 41180: 2.0m - St. Louis, MO-IL
20. 12580: 2.0m - Baltimore-Columbia-Towson, MD

30th metro is 1.4m, 40th is 0.9m.

## (Deprecated) Estimation of rate parameters by OLS

* `estimate-rates-full.r` and `estimate-rates.r`
	* very poor accuracy due to noisy inference on divorce flows
* Need marriage and divorce rates for each couple-type (globally)
	* Marriage rate (directly observable): SQL queries for flows and stocks to compute rates
	* Divorce rate (infer from non-divorce rate and death rate)
* Weighted OLS (by stocks of couples)
